TEST-191 Update smarter testing introductions (#10465)
circleci/circleci-docs: docs/guides/modules/test/pages/set-up-test-impact-analysis.adoc

include::ROOT:partial$notes/smarter-testing-beta.adoc[]

> Test impact analysis (TIA) speeds up CI by running only the tests affected by your code changes. CircleCI tracks which tests exercise which source files, then skips tests whose covered files have not changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test impact analysis (TIA) speeds up CI by running only the tests affected by your code changes. CircleCI tracks which tests exercise which source files, then skips tests that cover unchanged source files.
```

== Is my project a good fit for test impact analysis?

This section outlines several project features that indicate your project is a good candidate for test impact analysis:

=== Built-in coverage support

Test impact analysis relies on code coverage data to determine which tests affect which files. Frameworks with built-in coverage support - Jest, pytest, Go test, Vitest and RSpec - make this straightforward.

If your framework has no native coverage support, generating the data TIA needs may require significant rework of your test setup.

=== Tests run in the same process

Coverage data works best when tests directly import and run the source code in the same process.

When tests call code running in separate containers or services, collecting and consolidating coverage data across those service boundaries is not straightforward.

== How it works

Test impact analysis is split into two phases:

> - *Analysis* runs on your default branch with coverage instrumentation, producing *impact data* -- the relationship between files and tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *Analysis* runs on your default branch with coverage instrumentation, producing *impact data*. Impact data describes the relationship between files and tests.
```

====

=== Analysis on default branches

The analysis phase is run on your default branch (or the base branch of a pull request). It runs tests with coverage instrumentation and updates the impact data with the latest test-to-file relationships.

Keeping impact data fresh on the default branch allows the selection phase to select fewer tests without other unrelated changes interfering.

For each file found during coverage analysis, a fast non-crypto hash of its contents is stored in the impact data. The data also tracks which files impact the tests being selected.

.Example impact data relationship between a handler and repository.
[source,json]
----
{
  "version": 1,
  "files": {
    "1": {
      "path": "src/api/handlers.ts",
      "hash": "c9684be83632a628"
    },
    "2": {
      "path": "src/api/handlers.test.ts",
      "hash": "5b8e1a04c7d2f391"
    },
    "3": {
      "path": "src/data/repository.ts",
      "hash": "2e7c4d18a9f6b052"
    },
    "4": {
      "path": "src/data/repository.test.ts",
      "hash": "f1d39e62a08c5b74"
    }
  },
  "edges": {
    "src/api/handlers.test.ts": ["1", "2", "3"],
    "src/data/repository.test.ts": ["3", "4"]
  }
}
----

> * `files` records every file analysis has seen, along with the hash of its contents at the time it was last analyzed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `files` records every file that analysis has seen, along with the hash of its contents at the time it was last analyzed.
```

* `edges` records, for each test, the IDs of the files that are covered by the test.

[NOTE]
====
The analysis phase typically runs slower than a normal test run because it executes tests with coverage instrumentation. However, this cost pays for itself by enabling the selection phase to skip unaffected tests on subsequent runs.
====

=== Selection on feature branches

> By default, all tests run on default branches. Test selection selects affected tests on feature branches, using the impact data produced by analysis on the default branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all tests run on default branches. Test selection runs only affected tests on feature branches, using the impact data produced by analysis on the default branch.
```

> The current state of the branch's checked-out code is compared against the latest impact data, selecting tests if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During test selection, the current state of the branch's checked-out code is compared against the latest impact data. Tests are selected in the following scenarios:
```

> - The test is not found -- new test in the checked-out code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The test is not found in the impact data. This indicates a new test in the checked-out code.
```

- The test failed on the previous run for this branch.

> - A file affecting the test is not found -- removed from the checked-out code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A file affecting the test is not found in the impact data. This indicates the file was removed from the checked-out code.
```

> - A file affecting the test hash has changed -- modified in the checked-out code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A file affecting the test hash has changed.
```

    Selected([Selected])
    Skipped([Skipped])
----

[NOTE]
====

> The selection rules can be extended to select more tests than what was found in the impact data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selection rules can be extended to select tests beyond those identified in the impact data.
```
